Downloading PHP, Windows Steps.
1. Go to the link https://www.php.net/downloads.php
2. Click on Windows Download under Current Stable.
3. Download zip file from vs16 x64 Thread Safe.
4. Extract the file and save it to local C drive.
5. Set the environment variable for the PHP folder.



Running a PHP program.
Create a new text file hello.php and add this code to print text:

<?php
echo "Hello World!!";
?>

CD to the file directory and run php hello.php. This should check that php is installed and setup successfully.



About PHP.
PHP is a hypertext preprocessor scripting language.
PHP scripts start with <?php, and end with ?>.
All statements in PHP must end with a semicolon.

Please refer to the documentation at https://www.w3schools.com/php/php_forms.asp to learn the php language.

Variables:
All variables must start $. Some of the datatypes includes String, Integer, Boolean, Array, and Objects.
Constants may be defined with: define(name, value, case-insensitive).
Arrays:
PHP has support for numeric Arrays, and also Associative Arrays, that are maps in PHP. PHP also supports multidimensional arrays. PHP arrays can have different data types.

Control Structures:
PHP also supports control structures, such as if else, while loop, for loop, foreach loop, switch statements, and also break and continue statements.

Functions:
PHP allows user-defined functions. Note that PHP functions are not case-sensitive.

Files:
PHP supports working with files, such as writing to a file, appending to a file, and reading from a file,.

OOP:
PHP also supports Object-Oriented Programming.
A class may contain of variables and functions definitions.
And an object may be instantiated from the class. 
A constructor may be used when creating an object from a class by also defining the __constructor function.
A class may also inherit another class with the extends keyword.
The static keyword can be used to specify that a field from a class may be used without instantiation. 
The final keyword may be used in parent classes, so that child classes won’t override methods defined in parent classes.





